# Tags for documenting functions

Learn the full details in
[`vignette('rd')`](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/dev/articles/rd.md).

Key tags:

- `@description${1:A short description...} `: A short description of the
  purpose of the function. Usually around a paragraph, but can be longer
  if needed.

- `@example ${1:path}.R`: Embed examples stored in another file.

- `@examples${1:# example code} `: Executable R code that demonstrates
  how the function works. Code must run without error.

- `@examplesIf ${1:condition}${2:# example code} `: Run examples only
  when `condition` is `TRUE`.

- `@noRd`: Suppress `.Rd` generation for a block. Use for documentation
  blocks that should only be visible in the source code.

- `@param ${1:name} ${2:description}`: Describe a function input. Should
  describe acceptable input types and how it affects the output.
  `description` is usually one or two sentences but can be as long as
  needed. Document multiple arguments by separating their names with
  commas without spaces.

- `@returns ${1:description}`: Describe the function's output. Typically
  will be a 1-2 sentence description of the output type, but might also
  include discussion of important errors or warnings.

- `@title ${1:title}`: A one-line description of the function shown in
  various indexes. An explicit `@title` is not usually needed as by
  default it is taken from the first paragraph in the roxygen block.

- `@usage ${1:fun}(${2:arg1, arg2 = default, ...})`: Override the
  default usage generated by roxygen2. Only needed when roxygen2 fails
  to correctly derive the usage of your function.

Other less frequently used tags:

- `@details${1:Additional details...} `: Additional details about the
  function. Generally superseded by instead using a level 1 heading.

- `@rawRd ${1:rd}`: Insert literal text directly into the `.Rd` file.

- `@return ${1:description}`: Describe the function's output. Superseded
  in favour of `@returns`.

## Usage

``` r
#' @description${1:A short description...}

#' @details${1:Additional details...}

#' @example ${1:path}.R
#' @examples${1:# example code}

#' @examplesIf ${1:condition}${2:# example code}

#' @noRd
#' @param ${1:name} ${2:description}
#' @rawRd ${1:rd}
#' @return ${1:description}
#' @returns ${1:description}
#' @title ${1:title}
#' @usage ${1:fun}(${2:arg1, arg2 = default, ...})
```

## See also

Other documentation tags:
[`tags-index-crossref`](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/dev/reference/tags-index-crossref.md),
[`tags-rd-other`](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/dev/reference/tags-rd-other.md),
[`tags-reuse`](https://roxygen2.r-lib.org/dev/reference/tags-reuse.md)
